[docs] Windows install binaries (#15767)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/guides/developer/getting-started/sui-install.mdx

Each Sui release provides a set of binaries for several operating systems. You can download these binaries from GitHub and use them to install Sui.

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">

<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">
1. Go to https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui.
1. In the right pane, find the **Releases** section.

    ![Sui releases in GitHub](./images/releases.png)
1. Click the release tagged **Latest** to open the release's page.
1. In the **Assets** section of the release, select the .tgz compressed file that corresponds to your operating system.
1. Double-click the downloaded file. If the file doesn't automatically expand, manually unzip the file.

> 1. Open the expanded folder. Navigate to the `target/release` directory and double-click the appropriate binary to install, beginning with `sui-ubuntu-x86_64`:

Reviewer: This won't install the binary, it'll just run it. For the `sui` binary, this would just open a terminal, show the help output, and exit. This is true on all platforms.

Author: Will test.

>     - `sui-data-ingestion-ubuntu-x86_64`: Massage Full node data for indexer to store in a database.

Reviewer: Massage?

Author: No, but thanks. ;)

    - `sui-faucet-ubuntu-x86_64`: Local faucet to mint coins on local network.
    - `sui-indexer-ubuntu-x86_64`: An indexer for a local Sui network.
    - `sui-ubuntu-x86_64`: Main Sui binary.
    - `sui-node-ubuntu-x86_64`: Run a local node.
    - `sui-test-validator-ubuntu-x86_64`: Run test validators on a local network for development.
    - `sui-tool-ubuntu-x86_64`: Provides utilities for Sui.

>     The Sui binary takes several minutes to download and install files, so make sure you allocate enough time for it to complete. Actual time to complete depends on your network connection and computer specifications.

Reviewer: Is this the Sui node binary? AFAICT none of these binaries when run will download or install anything.

Author: Binary equals executable so not required to download or install.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">

1. Go to https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui.
1. In the right pane, find the **Releases** section.

    ![Sui releases in GitHub](./images/releases.png)
1. Click the release tagged **Latest** to open the release's page.
1. In the **Assets** section of the release, select the .tgz compressed file that corresponds to your operating system.
1. Double-click the downloaded file. If the file doesn't automatically expand, manually unzip the file.
1. Open the expanded folder. Navigate to the `target/release` directory and double-click the appropriate binary to install, beginning with `sui-macos-<ARCHITECTURE>`:

>     - `sui-data-ingestion-macos-<ARCHITECTURE>`: Massage Full node data for indexer to store in a database.

Reviewer: Same as above, "Massage"?

Author: No means no.

    - `sui-macos-<ARCHITECTURE>`: Main Sui binary.
    - `sui-node-macos-<ARCHITECTURE>`: Run a local node.
    - `sui-test-validator-macos-<ARCHITECTURE>`: Run test validators on a local network for development.
    - `sui-tool-macos-<ARCHITECTURE>`: Provides utilities for Sui.

    The Sui binary takes several minutes to download and install files, so make sure you allocate enough time for it to complete. Actual time to complete depends on your network connection and computer specifications.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="win" label="Windows">

1. Go to https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui.
1. In the right pane, find the **Releases** section.

    ![Sui releases in GitHub](./images/releases.png)
1. Click the release tagged **Latest** to open the release's page.
1. In the **Assets** section of the release, select the .tgz compressed file that corresponds to your operating system.
1. Extract all files from the .tgz file into the preferred location on your system. These instructions assume you extract the files into a `sui` folder at the root of your C drive for demonstration purposes. Replace references to this location in subsequent steps if you choose a different directory.

> 1. Navigate to the `target\release` directory of the expanded folder. Rename each file to remove the `-windows-x86_64` suffix from each file name. For example, rename `sui-windows-x86_64.exe` to `sui.exe`. If you don't do this step, you must type `sui-windows-x86_64` to execute commands instead of simply `sui`. When complete, you should have the following .exe files:

Reviewer: I think you'd need to do this on all platforms, not just Windows. All our other documentation assumes these binaries will be named "sui" not "sui-platform-arch", as does I think some of the VSCode support.

Author: Will test.

    - `sui-data-ingestion`: Massage Full node data for indexer to store in a database.
    - `sui-faucet`: Local faucet to mint coins on local network.
    - `sui-indexer`: An indexer for a local Sui network.
    - `sui`: Main Sui binary.
    - `sui-node`: Run a local node.
    - `sui-test-validator`: Run test validators on a local network for development.
    - `sui-tool`: Provides utilities for Sui.

    :::info

    Rename the `external-crates\move\target\release\move-analyzer-windows-x86_64.exe` in the same way.

    :::

> 1. Add the folder containing the extracted files to your `PATH` variable. There are several ways to get to the setting depending on your version of Windows. One way that works on all versions of Windows is to type `sysdm.cpl` in a console to open the System Properties window. Under the **Advanced** tab, click the **Environment Variables...** button.

Reviewer: I think you'd need to do this on any platform. 
On Linux, you'd add it to your $PATH variable as normal.
On OS X, you'd need to add it to your PATH variable in either bash or zsh depending on the version of OS X.

    ![Sui releases in GitHub](./images/releases.png)
1. Click the release tagged **Latest** to open the release's page.
1. In the **Assets** section of the release, select the .tgz compressed file that corresponds to your operating system.
1. Extract all files from the .tgz file into the preferred location on your system. These instructions assume you extract the files into a `sui` folder at the user root of your system for demonstration purposes. Replace references to this location in subsequent steps if you choose a different directory.
1. Navigate to the `target/release` directory of the expanded folder. Rename each file to remove the `-ubuntu-x86_64` suffix from each file name. For example, rename `sui-ubuntu-x86_64` to `sui`. If you don't do this step, you must type `sui-ubuntu-x86_64` to execute commands instead of simply `sui`. When complete, you should have the following files:

    - `sui-data-ingestion`: Capture Full node data for indexer to store in a database.
    - `sui-faucet`: Local faucet to mint coins on local network.
    - `sui-indexer`: An indexer for a local Sui network.
    - `sui`: Main Sui binary.
    - `sui-node`: Run a local node.

>     - `sui-test-validator`: Run test validators on a local network for development.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `sui-test-validator`: A binary that starts a local network, a faucet, and several test validators.
```
